# Security
## Types of Security Risks to an Organisation
An organisation's network is vital for employees to be able to do their jobs and therefore make money for the company. For this reason it is imperative that an organisation is aware of what IT security risks it is vunerable to and how to deal with said security risks effectively.

Employees in organisations use emails constantly to communicate with colleagues. A increasing threat to email users is spam with research even claiming that up to 94% of all emails are spam. Spam is more than just irritating, it can also be harmful: such as spam which includes malicious links, which downloads malware or other harmful files, when clicked on. Therefore the first step for a robust security is to make sure there is anti-spam software on the network.

Another threat an organisation can face are viruses. A virus can copy itself and infect other machines on a network without the users even realising it's there until it strikes. Viruses can also be spread by email, instant messaging, and over shared networks which can lead to multiple work stations being effected by the virus, which can lead to a cycle of problems for the organisation. Viruses can also capture keystrokes which would lead to massive security risks, such as passwords and bank details being tracked. To counter this risk it would be very beneficial for an organisation to implement anti-virus software to protect their network.

Another threat to an organisation is malware. Malware refers to a variety of malicious software such as Trojans, worms and spyware which can inflitrate a work station without the worker realising. Like a virus, malware can also spread through a network by attaching itself to executable files and therefore causing an IT emergency on the network. while some malware is designed to just disrupt a system, some creators of malware use them for financial gain. Spyware, botnets and keystroke loggers can be used to control infected sytems to continue an attack on a organisation. They can also be used to track users login details and any credit card details being entered to buy something online, which can allow the creator of the malware to steal others private information. As an attempt to reduce this risk, an organisation should ensure that their anti-virus software it up to date and also check systems regularly to check for malicious files.

## Security Procedures in an Organisation.
